hi everyone it's Lucy again and today
we're gonna look more at the TOEFL
listening test and specifically today
we're going to look at conversation
skill 5 inference okay so in today's
lesson first we're going to describe the
task then we're going to talk about the
method and finally it's time for you to
do your own practice so the purpose of
today's lesson is to understand exactly
how to complete the listening inference
question type ok so in this particular
conversation skill what exactly is
involved in this task well you need to
make an inference about what the speaker
means by something they say now remember
an inference isn't explicitly stated but
it is strongly hinted based on how they
say it so for example a statement might
be you're going outside without a jacket
well what's the inference of this
statement yeah you're going to freeze so
remember it's not going to be something
stated directly but rather it is an
educated guess or a logical assumption
about the meaning of a statement based
on tone of voice and on context ok so
what is our method for tackling this
particular task well as always our first
step is to listen to the audio and take
notes ok remember that note-taking is a
very important skill if you don't
already get a pen and paper and you want
to take some notes based on this audio
now you don't know exactly what it is
they're going to be asking in the
question so that's why I'm it's
important to take notes on the main idea
any key words you hear but remember
don't write any full sentences you won't
have time for it ok are you ready so
we're going to take notes on the
following conversation here we go excuse
me yeah hi I was stood in here last
night and I think I left a book in this
cubicle did you happen to see it what's
the title fundamentals of biotechnology
or is something like that
I forget the exact title it has a brown
hardcover ah there's a whole pile here
it looks like someone else forgot their
books here - oh is this it
biotechnology basics it's a gray
hardcover huh that's kind of spooky
isn't it it's really pretty close but
it's not mine nothing else there now
just a couple of volumes and how to
write a dissertation what those I don't
think so I won't be writing a
dissertation anytime soon well sorry I
can't help it doesn't seem to be here
hmm I'll check with the librarian good
luck okay hopefully you were able to
take some useful notes from this
conversation let's take a look at our
example notes so you can see here not a
lot you really don't need to write down
much it's just important to keep track
of the key words and key ideas so you
can see here we have lost book biology
guy hasn't seen it
spooky similar book dissertation and
check with librarian hmm okay so our
next step here is to look at the
question now similar to other
conversation tasks you may have to
listen to part of the conversation again
before answering the question so let's
and then answer the question ah there's
a whole pile here it looks like someone
else forgot their books here too oh is
this it
biotechnology basics it's a gray
hardcover huh that's kind of spooky
isn't it it's really pretty close but
it's not mine nothing else there okay so
now it's time to try to look at the
question and here is the question so
what does the woman mean when she says
this huh that's kind of spooky isn't it
is it
eh she's surprised at the similarity of
titles
B she thinks the book disappeared
mysteriously
C she thinks there are a lot of books in
the Carroll or D she thinks the man is
lying about the book all right now our
next step
is to bring up our notes and try to
eliminate any answers that don't make
sense in the context of the conversation
so again let's take a look at our
question in our notes and try to compare
them are there any answers here that you
can eliminate based on our notes
okay once you've gotten rid of any
questions sorry any answers that are
obviously wrong it's time for step four
which is obviously to choose the right
answer so what do you think were you
able to choose the correct answer okay
and here's our answer a she's surprised
at the similarity of the titles okay now
our next step is to practice it's time
for you to do some practice on your own
if you don't already get some pen or get
some paper and a pen ready and it's time
to listen and take notes okay so it's
time for you to listen to your own
practice conversation are you ready
here's the conversation great to see you
oh hell I haven't seen you around in a
while yeah I've had my head in my books
all semester trying to catch my grades
up I worked a lot last semester and my
grades kinda slipped no no we just in
professor Krantz Keys lecture
microbiology yes it was so interesting
today he focused on unicellular
organisms fascinating stuff oh man I'm
sorry I missed it did you take any notes
yeah I'm going to library now to put
them in order there were there was just
so much information in the lecture and
my notes are a mess do you think I'll be
able to take a look at them when you're
done I promise to pay back with a favor
sure
okay do you think you are able to get
some helpful notes out of that remember
don't waste your time making full
sentences just a few key words and
phrases is all you need so now it's time
for you to look at the question and
remember that you're going to have to
listen to part of the conversation again
before you answer the question so let's
listen to that part of the conversation
oh Heil I haven't seen you around in a
while yeah I've had my head in my books
all semester trying to catch my grades
up I worked a lot last semester and my
grades kind of slipped okay and here is
our question yeah I've had my head in my
books all semester
okay so were you able to eliminate any
obviously incorrect answer choices
before you chose your correct answer if
you're not sure yet feel free to go back
and pause before you check out the
answer because I'm going to give you the
answer in just a second okay are you
ready here is our answer and the answer
is C she has been spending all her time
studying okay how did you go with that
one
remember if you have any questions
please feel free to check out our
website at eetu language comm thank you
again for watching and I hope you have a
great day bye